
Presentation

# Script


***intro***

I am going to tell you a story about videogames and books, and about how a convinced reader became a passionate PC-games enthousiast.

I never was the kind of child to spend entire days playing on a computer : I rather prefered to do sport and read books.

But I think it is my appetite for reading that led me into gaming. I discovered a type of gae called RPG several years ago, and was stroke how immersive it was. 

***initial comparaison***

It had characters, landscapes, monsters and a storyline, exactly like a book. But at the time I first played RPGs, I had a low-end computer, and I was like 14 y.o. . So I was convinced books would still be better than videogames because details and landscapes would always be far better in my mind than on a screen.

***evolution***

In the following years, technology evolved and games became more and more realistic... Which led me to reconsider my previous jugement : modern RPGs are exactly like a book, and nowadays games are detailed and beautifully realised. 

***final comparaison***

But I think more than just imitating a book's feature, modern games and especially RPGs have brought something new to the art of storytelling. 
Obviously, there is the fact the player isn't only an observer of the story, but has the illusion to control his character's life, which can be more immersive than a simple reading of a story.

***example***

The fact I found amazing for real is perfectly illustrated by two games you may know, Fallout 3 (a little old now but I haven't play the 4th) and The Witcher 3.
In both of those games, you are to make choices through your character that are meant to change the storyline in the future.

It is like a book that you write without knowing what will happen at the end. 
I discovered it by talking to a friend about a huge battle in the old castle of Kaer Morhen : I regretted having done a choice that had led to the death of one of the main characters. My friend looked surprised : In his version of the battle, two characters died, which will certainly have a meaning in the future of the story. I haven't finished it yet.

Moreover, I was used to finish a book in a few days... It has been a year I play the Witcher without reaching the last page.

***conclusion***

Games have evolved to a point were in a short term future, I am convinced each unique player will live a different unique story : Videogaming has become more efficient than books in storytelling.